#How Much Does Biking _Actually_ Help the Environment?
###By Kelsey Bales
When I was in elementary and middle school, I biked everywhere—and I mean _everywhere_: swim practice, school, my friends' houses, the mall, etc.  I wasn't old enough to drive, obviously, and I was in pretty good shape from the 4 sports I played, so biking was a good way for me to get around.  Once my friends started to get their licenses, though, that almost all but ended.  Then when I got my license a couple months after, it completely stopped.  I would always choose to drive places instead of biking, primarily because driving is quicker than biking, but also occasionally because I was just being lazy.

I thought nothing of my decision to ditch my bike and drive my car, until I got to college.  Virginia Tech has been regarded as a "[Bicycle Friendly University](http://bikeleague.org/sites/default/files/BFU_Award_List_2017_ALL.pdf)" since 2013, so naturally in my four years I have seen (and narrowly avoided—I've been literally inches within being hit by a biker 3 separate times) tons of bikers on campus.  I've considered bringing a bike to school since freshman year, never actually doing it because of the hassle to get my bike 3 hours here in an already-full car, but my considerations were never because of the environment; it was because I am eternally late to class, and parking is a major hassle.  It wasn't until recently, when I saw a friend of mine dripping in sweat from riding his bike around campus, and asked him exactly why he chose to bike, that I really started thinking about the effect on the environment.

Riding a bike as a means of transportation offers many environmental benefits.  Compared to a cyclist, the energy consumed by a driver is 42x more, by a bus passenger is 34x more, and by a train passenger is 27x more.  That's a big difference.  To save energy doesn't require everybody to bike _everywhere_; it just takes a little.  Think about if everyone rode their bikes whenever they had to go somewhere close: even doing that would save so much energy.  

Even though it may be less convenient or require more effort for you, next time you need to go somewhere that's relatively close, think about riding your bike.  It's good for you and way better for the environment—so basically, completely worth it.
